=== Summary

The vision for wake is as a sort of rake/make like program, combined
with the real-time filesystem "watching" aspect of autotest/autospec/watchr.

Wake started out (and still is) mostly a fork of the watchr gem at
http://github.com/mynyml/watchr.

The are a number of differences now and they're expected to grow.

It's been ported to EventMachine for file-events and has some
extensions for how watches can be written.

To install, you can clone the repo (http://github.com/smparkes/wake)
or install the gem, <tt>wake</tt>. Note that for now, you'll need my
copy of EventMachine (http://github.com/smparkes/eventmachine or the
<tt>smparkes-eventmachine</tt> gem) for directory watches to work
well. (These changes are in the process of getting pulled upstream.)

== EventMachine

Not much to say. It supports EM as well as Rev, though the Rev stuff
will probably be dropped unles there's a compelling reason to keep
it. The default is still Rev. To use EventMachine, after installing
the EM gem, I just add

     begin; require 'wake/event_handlers/em'; rescue LoadError; end

to my <tt>Wakefile</tt>. It'll use the first required backend, or
Rev if none are found (and Rev is installed).  There may be better ways to
do this.

=== Event processing extensions

I made several changes to the way events are created/processed, mostly
to make my <tt>Wakefile</tt> work:

  #!/usr/bin/env wake

  begin; require 'wake/event_handlers/em'; rescue LoadError; end

  watch( %r(.*), :modified, lambda { |md| File.directory? md[0] } ) do |md|
    raise Wake::Refresh
  end

  watch( %r((public/.*)\.haml$), [ :created, :modified ] ) do |md|
    cmd = "rm -f #{md[1]}.html && haml -f html5 #{md[0]} #{md[1]}.html && chmod 444 #{md[1]}.html"
    puts cmd
    system cmd
    if  $?.signaled? && $?.termsig == 2
      Process.kill 2, 0
    end
  end

  watch( %r((spec/.*[Ss]pec)\.(html|js)$), [ :load, :created, :modified ] ) do |md|
    cmd = "jazrb #{md[0]}"
    puts cmd
    system cmd
    if  $?.signaled? && $?.termsig == 2
      Process.kill 2, 0
    end
  end

The purpose of the first watch is to cause wake to refresh when
directories change. This allows new files to be picked up.  The watch
pattern matches all files in the current directory tree (though not
<tt>.</tt> itself; probably should), and watches for
<tt>:modified</tt> events. It adds an extra lambda that is processed
while looking at file paths: only directories will get watches put on
them. (Otherwise <tt>%r(.*)</tt> would put watches on every
file/directory in the tree, which seems kinda bad.)

The second watch looks for Haml files in my public directory and
automatically converts them to HTML. These are static files, not
served by an app server like Rails: even with static files, I hate
writing raw HTML. The extension here is so that instead of a single event
type, I can pass an array. In addition to the <tt>:modified</tt>,
event, this will get called when wake notes that a new file of this
type has appeared. (Note this works starting from wake's first pass;
files created while wake wasn't running don't count).

Then final watch looks for JavaScript and HTML spec files and runs
them under jazrb (see http://github.com/smparkes/jazrb if
interested). This case is similar to the previous but also adds the
<tt>:load</tt> event. This event gets fired the first time a file is
seen after wake starts. This allows wake to run all the specs when
first started, similar to what autotest does.

=== Recent Changes

1. POC for batch events that occur within a time window

1. Pass event type to callbacks

1. Has some POC dependency detection. Needs to be formalized into an API and have a better backend.

=== Things to do

1. Move directory watch into wake itself

1. Handle user interrupt processing more systematically

1. Don't swallow config file error messages, particularly on reload. Is this still happening?

1. Integrate with rake/make.